have you ever felt like your ping is
holding you back in fortnite or maybe
you want to play with your friends but
their servers are too laggy if you're
looking to improve your ping for
completely free today I'm going to show
you guys the best settings and
optimizations to fix your Internet
connection and of course if you play
other games this will work for those as
well so here's how my ping is looking
right now we're at around 27 ping
definitely very playable but lots of
room for improvement mostly what we're
going to be doing is in the settings so
you just press your Windows key and type
settings and in here we're just going to
go to network and internet and I'm going
to just show you every single thing I
can think of to help you fix your ping
so so just go into the advanced network
settings and then data usage and in here
all you have to do is click on reset
usage stats and for some reason this
just helps I'm not entirely sure why
this happens it doesn't really make any
sense but it just does so be sure to
reset that and if you use ethernet
instead of Wi-Fi which you always should
be you should disable your Wi-Fi right
here and you can obviously really easily
enable it again just by going back here
and also if you don't need Bluetooth as
well you can disable that I actually use
Bluetooth all the time but otherwise you
should be having it off the next thing
we're going to do is in this network and
internet section you go to Advanced
network settings you press this drop-
down menu on Ethernet or Wi-Fi depending
on which one you use go to more adapter
options and it'll show you this thing
right here so we're going to go into the
Internet Protocol version 4 here and as
you can see I'm using the Google DNS now
everyone's going to have a different
best DNS server so we're just going to
run some benchmarks to figure out which
is the best DNS server for you so for
anyone who doesn't really want to
download any software you can really
easily just go to this website right
here and you can test with every DNS
server that that you want Cloud flare
performed better than the Google DNS so
we're going to switch to that for now
and be sure to test it yourself because
again it's not going to be the same for
everyone and boom we'll just change that
to the cloudflare DNS address and then
once you're done all of that we're going
to go into network reset and we're just
going to reset it now and then we just
have to restart our PC this next
optimization is so unbelievably simple
but before you boot up the game every
single time you should be checking for
updates not only does this get rid of
packet loss it will also boost your FPS
and get you better ping don't ask me why
this is the case but it always works for
me especially when there's an antivirus
update so yeah always be sure to check
for updates and you can see that now we
went down to eight ping that's pretty
dang good also nor warm up so I'm going
to not be able to dou anything but yeah
there was definitely a noticeable
Improvement and I'm pretty happy with
that actually and obviously testing
every single DNS server with that
website is going to take a really long
time so if you don't mind downloading
just a little bit of software in this
random channel in my Discord server
you'll be able to test every single DNS
server really quickly uh link will be in
the comments but yeah in this random
channel here I have this DNS bench file
right here and we're just going to go to
the second tab right here we're going to
press run Benchmark this will take a few
minutes so I'm just going to start
eating my blueberries after running this
Benchmark you can see that open DNS is
leading with Cloud flare quad 9 and
Google trailing behind so yeah the
obvious choice is to switch from cloud
flare to open DNS so switching from
cloud flare to open DNS you can see that
there's not really a big difference an
open DNS despite having pretty much the
same ping it feels very laggy I'm not
sure exactly why but the edits actually
take like a little bit longer to go
through even with the same ping I think
cloud flare is just a lot more
consistent so I would recommend that if
your ping still sucks after doing this
like if it's still above like 30 I would
recommend getting a free VPN the one
that I use actually is windscribe
windscribe is actually a lifesaver when
it comes to connecting to other servers
however if you have below 30 ping on
your own servers I don't think it's
going to help you at all it's only going
to be useful if you go to another server
because that's when it really has an
effect so again we're just going to boot
up fortnite once again and really
quickly before you start using
windscribe you just got to make sure
when you do use it you make sure that
you pick one that's closest to your
servers or the servers that you want to
connect to so let's say we're trying to
connect to us East we're going to just
pick one of these USC servers so I'm
going to set my servers to na Central
we're going to switch this to Dallas
because the central servers are closest
to Dallas and we're just going to
connect into the game all right fellow
sigas our thinging is doing okay you
know we're getting around 30 30 is
pretty decent it's just a little bit
laggy it's just above like average ping
I believe average ping is around like 25
and you do get 10 GB per month and that
is more than enough for regular gaming
as you can see when we send data to the
server it's only about 3 to5 kiloby per
second you're not going to run out of
this 10 GB and it's really easy to just
make a new account and before you say
anything vpn's cannot get you banned if
a friend told you that they got banned
from using a VPN they were using Aimbot
and they just said they were using a VPN
uh as an excuse and of course the best
way to get rid of lag spikes and get
better ping is to use ethernet and for
some reason the performance this season
is really bad so if you want to optimize
your PC for better fps definitely check
out this video right here